# Ad Selection API Discussion
Thursday, March 20th  at 11 am EDT /  8 am PDT   
Scribe: Pooja Tetali   
Open discussion to review technical details and open GitHub issues for the Ad Selection API proposal.   
If you want to participate, please make sure you join the [WICG:](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)   

## Agenda   
[Alexander Tretyakov] Follow on from Google Privacy Sandbox on Microsoft posting on how their k-anon checks would work for dynamic ads 
Any and all information with regards to their detailed design around how the k-anon status for an ad/render URL is looked up by their servers is helpful. Some aspects that are of interest:
- Is k-anonymity checked by DSP/SSP?
- Is it checked in TKV or BFE/SFE/Bidding/Auction?
- Is it checked on the critical path or all k-anon hashes are preloaded?
- If preloaded, What’s the expected memory footprint? How often is it updated? How’s that process operated? E.g. is it inside the trusted boundary or outside?
- If on the critical path- Is there some kind of read-through cache?  Any details, if so — max size, separate data structures and their types for k-anon and non-k-anon hashes and rates of updates, and the eviction strategy for key value pairs
- What kind of assumptions do you have about the k-anon service?
- Who runs the TEE?
- What sort of p50/p95/ latency parameter it’ll have (with/without network)?
- What sort of peak QPS?
- How many k-anon hashes are batched in the request? We are deeply interested in the privacy risks of any design choices.

## Attendees (sign in here) 
Brandon Maslen (Microsoft Edge)   
Alexander Tretyakov (Google Privacy Sandbox)   
Russ Hamilton (Google Chrome)   
Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)   
Brian Schneider (Google Privacy Sandbox)   

## Minutes:
BM: DSP is the logical grouping, might disadvantage a smaller seller otherwise. Not currently checked by key-value service, all of the bits in generatebids() and the buyer front end will batch all those to the k-anon service, returned to the seller front end. Auction is not exposed to edx. Data is attached to the browser and the seller front end lets the buyer front end if you want to do join auction or if there is a ghost winner.    
BM: We sell an identifier with the auction request that can be sent to that buyer.    
AT: Does it require trust tokens   
BM: No   
MK: When the auction is kicked on the device, there is some device identifier that is attached to the original blob of data that is sent to the servers to let the auction happen, that specific to device token is held onto and passed from the seller servers to the buyer server back to the seller server. If that seller determines that the buyer is the winner/ghost winner. Then there is another auction where the seller lets the buyer know that and tells the buyer to do an additional join()    
BM: Certain requests may not have that token. So it is similar to what chrome is doing. We have antifraud measures based on how that token is created. Evaluating if there are any additional antifraud measures we can take from the KMS.    
PJ: Multiple sellers, how do you know which seller won the auction?   
BM: Kept it to the simple case. Single seller.    
IF: We want to go down the multi-seller route, like Chrome, but we don’t have it yet.   
BM: Yes    
BM: Is it pre-loaded or on critical path? Single k-anon service is on the critical path. For multiple k-anon services we allow replication and the other instances would pre-load on startup. This can be configured by the host or DSP. May be subject to change as we release it.    
AT: Do you preload on you cache or all caches?    
BM: I have such a high volume, I want to split it amongst to services. The existing one would replicate from the older state. If you never hosted a k-anon before there would be nothing to replicate. No global k-anon . Scale with the DSPs actions volume, so you don’t need as many resources as a larger one.    
MK: What are ways in which a malicious ad tech can attack this system? Assume you have an ad tech whose goal is to show unique ads to everyone, circumvent k-anonymity. The thing that prevents an adtech from joining a k-anonymity set is because joining a set requires a token you get from signing into microsoft etc, from the browser, which is sent to the browser. Thats presumably an encrypted token. To verify that the token is from Microsoft, it is validated in a DSP server within a TEE that allows the K-anon server to check if this is legit.    
BM: Yes, the k-anon service would make that check. The goal we have is to maintain that level of validation without a microsoft hosting server, but it could use KMS or keys from private server.   
MK: Lets say you are a DSP that wants to show a unique ad to everyone. You are also doing dynamic ad generation, those urls get checked for anonymity.    
PJ: The join happens when the auction is done on the server and doesn’t require the client to make it visible.    
MK: How does the attacker know my identity, there are also alot of other people who are winning auctions with that ad.   
PJ: Based on timing?    
IF: The fundamental thing you are calling out, bc the join() is not triggering on the page, so if you have the same winner on DSP and SSP, you can trigger a bunch of joins and potentially identify people.    
MK: You can use the same urls for a 100 different ads, if you know which ads auctions recently.    
IF: From an ad tech perspective, if we try to address this I don’t think it would go against anything we talked about.    
AT: Privacy risks for this model? Read through docs.    
BM: We plan to post more details on this but we haven’t because we aren’t enforcing this at the moment. If you have any other questions, public calls, github, slack, email. If there is anything worth publicly sharing we can update docs.    
AT: If it is a k-anon run in TEE how do you preserve state?    
BM: We evaluated how do we keep the performance up and why we have multiple, so you atleast have one running state. Worst case is ad-tech performance is affected.    
RH: What will you do if the hashes don’t fit into one services membrane?    
BM: We can handle that for a given PSP, might need to address this. We are waiting to see how performance in the wild is before addressing this.    
IF: Sharding- we would want to do something similar to the KV server, decreasing fan out, to reduce the networking attacks.    
MK: Replication and the flow works. Do you have anything to test against a malicious actor starting up copy of edge, getting a token and joining different urls at a rate of 1 qps. What prevents my browser from starting up a pretend auction and joining k-anon servers. What prevents a buyer from making their own seller. Malicious DSPs.    
BM: Validate the token, there are other parameters used to determine if the token is legit.   
MK: Hard to do double spending, without there being a central token issuer.    
BM: It is a harder problem to solve. Microsoft account might have similar protections and the k-anon can use different heuristics to validate token. We are also evaluating use of KMS.    
Rh: If a report of events gets fired, we are closer to knowing that something has been spent. If you have the same buyer/seller ignoring that on the backend should we be worrying?    
MK: Suppose the SSPs of the world wanted to prevent k-anonymity. When we get to any webpage we will run an ad auction, render result, then run a 100 ad auctions in a row, feel free to bid, winner will get k-anon +1, no money will be spent. Once you are talking about rendering something in a frame, anyone who is involved in rendering can pick up on fraudulent activity happening. Version where join requests come from browser instead of server, so they can go directly to DSP server or path where browser would get in touch with the SSP. I don’t know which of the paths are better?    
IF: The client side today when a thing wins but it hasn’t hit 50 yet and it sends a 1 off, it sends the 1 off to the server without rendering   
MK: Yes only happens when the real winning ad renders, the ghost winner gets sent.    
IF: Potentially could do something with the ghost winner   
MK: Yup, Ghost winner, as soon as it does become k-anon, stop bidding high with it until a specific person is looking at it.    
IF: Were we to add some client side signal to this equation, it would add some deterrent in these cases.    
MK: Yeah, its all a cost benefit analysis so anything that makes it harder to evade k-anon.    
RH: Haven’t implemented this, K-anon adds noise, to protect users and join() does not leak their history. Adds noise a second time? Ensures the won’t evade k-anon. Our api returns a boolean which is a problem.   
MK: Its more privacy preserving   
RH: How does the k-anon server access controls for query. How does the noise work? Concerned about tracking users from joins()   
BM: Not publicly controlled access, only buyer front end can access and query that.    
RH: Is it using encryption keys?    
BM: Yes can make it more complex over time.     
RH: Privacy is less of an issue but noise    
IF: Is the multiple different thresholds something you are doing today?    
MK: No    
AT: If you generate logic, somehow make the payload go up   
BM: The query in is the hashes, the output is a boolean, the size should be the same.    
AT: Look up  1 or n hashes and effect the payload hashes. Do you think k-anon always?    
BM: For testing, we take all bids and query it, potentially if someone was crafty. We have to start doing different things,    
MK: If ssp and dsp are aligned. DSPs interest groups know who I am and their goal is to get my global identity out then it seems like a single request can trigger a single auction which can flow from DSP to SSP. That request can be “tell me first digit of users id” Then auction can tell you first digit of identifier. There is enough contextual information to exploit payload.    
IF: bit leaks through network requests is something we should account for? Is there something different about this compared to other network leaks?    
MK: Request size can be controlled by untrusted code, that is a way for untrusted code with secret information, an easy way for malicious party to isolate server. The protections you might gain from network traffic are harder to pull off.    
BM: Its a good callout.    
IF: Issue we + chrome might have, because you have a mix of contextual info, it can cause identifiers to be potentially leaked.    

















